(upbeat music)
(air whooshing)
- The leaks are true.
I feel like I could start
every Pixel video this way
because they're always true.
But I just got some hands-on time
with Google's new budget
phone, the Pixel 9a,
and right off the bat,
there are a few things that
I'm really happy about.
First of all, and most importantly,
the price stays the same at $499.
So in a world where we have
questions about inflation
and tariffs and a whole
bunch of other variables,
this phone is the same
price that the Pixel 8a was.
Nice.
And then design-wise, okay,
I have mixed thoughts about this.
So on one hand, it's pretty boring,
and I just really don't
find any of it that great.
Like I feel like I just got done
praising the Pixel series last year
for stepping up their hardware game
with really locking in their identity
as the phone with the visor.
Like you look at a
Pixel, it's recognizable.
No other phone looks quite like it.
And then this comes out, like
where did the identity go?
But on the other hand,
you'll notice something.
There is no camera bump
on the back of this phone.
Not just a little camera
bump or a small set of rings,
no, there's no camera bump, nothing.
And how long have we been
asking phone manufacturers
to do this?
Like you've seen the YouTube comments,
"Hey, I don't care about a thin phone.
Just go right ahead and
make the phone thicker,
get rid of the camera bump,
and fill in that extra
space with batteries."
And that's literally
exactly what they've done.
It's an 8.9 millimeter thick phone,
and we have now the largest battery
that's ever been in a Pixel
device, 5,100 milliampere-hours.
That's more than the 9 Pro XL just had.
So they did the thing, sick.
So that by itself has essentially
become the main value
proposition to this new Pixel.
It's the cheaper one
with all the Pixely software
goodness we already know about
and the huge battery.
Now the new embargo that
they're doing with this Pixel
for some reason is kind
of a massive red flag.
They're not allowing us to
show any software at all,
like I usually do.
So that's why this whole
video is just home screens.
But I did get to spend
some time with this phone
and using it off camera,
and I can tell you pretty
much everything else
about it is exactly as you'd expect.
It is powered by the same Tensor G4 chip
as the flagship Pixel 9s,
with 8 gigs of RAM and 128
gigs of starting storage.
And it's also basically the
same size as the Pixel 9.
So that's a 6.3 inch display
with the hole punch at the top
and the fingerprint
reader under the glass.
And it honestly feels
very close to a flagship
in terms of build.
It has flat aluminum rails.
The back is plastic instead of glass.
So you may notice that if
you're the rare breed of person
that doesn't have a case on their phone,
but also people argue
for that all the time
in terms of shadow resistance.
And this phone is also now fully IP 68,
dust and water resistant now,
unlike last year's 8a, which was IP 67.
So here's what's interesting.
Last year, the Pixel 8a
came out at the same price
right around the time that the
Pixel 8 was all the way down
to like 550 bucks in price.
And it made too many sacrifices,
felt a bit off of a flagship phone.
So it was kind of in this awkward place
where it was not a very good deal.
And the Pixel 8 right above
it was a really good deal.
This year though, I feel like
there's been a massive push
actually in both directions.
So the 9a is much closer to a flagship.
It makes less of those sacrifices,
and it's the same price,
so it's a better deal.
And the Pixel 9 is actually,
it was more pricey.
It was $799 at launch,
and so now it's down to like $649 at best.
So it's not as good of a deal.
So there's enough separation
now between the two
where I'm not just telling
you to go buy the flagship.
The 9a actually represents
a good bang for the buck.
It seems to be almost the
same display as the Pixel 9,
same 120 hertz max refresh rate,
which, yes, is still off by default at 60,
but also same brightness, same resolution,
just a slightly worse contrast ratio.
And it's Gorilla Glass
3 instead of Victus 2.
And it isn't missing any
of the software features
that make a Pixel a Pixel.
So they might have gotten rid
of some of the hardware stuff,
but software-wise, all
that stuff is still there.
Gemini is everywhere.
Magic Eraser, photo
unblur, call screening.
Like the stuff that I really miss
when I switch to another
phone that's not a Pixel,
it's all still in the A series,
and then still seven
years of software updates,
and the Pixel drops and all that stuff.
It still has basic Qi wireless charging,
and it's gonna charge that big battery
slower than the flagship, sure.
But then also with these
dual cameras on the back,
it's a 48 megapixel main camera,
plus a 13 megapixel ultrawide,
and it still has night sight.
So if I just take the
things that I think people
who are buying these types of
phones care the most about,
you can think of the Pixel 9a basically
as like a Pixel 9,
minus some camera chops,
plus a way bigger battery.
And that's a sacrifice
I think a lot of people
are totally cool with,
and it's way cheaper.
So in general,
like are people really gonna notice
the plastic on the back versus glass,
or are they gonna notice
a slightly slower charging
when the battery's bigger?
You have a case on your phone anyway,
like I don't think that's
gonna be a huge deal
to a lot of people.
So I think at this price,
it's actually pretty perfect positioning.
So there's four colors available again.
Black and white are still here.
And there's also what
they're calling Peony,
which is this pink one, and Iris,
which is closer to like a purple or blue
depending on how the light hits it.
I think that's the one that looks best.
But now I'll leave you with this.
Okay, so good phone,
good price, good value.
I think they're in a good
place with the Pixel 9a,
but we are also a few months away
from starting to see
probably accurate leaks
of the Pixel 10 series.
And then the Pixel 10 is gonna come out,
and that obviously won't be
as cheap as the A series,
but the Pixel 10's shaping
up to be very interesting.
And I don't wanna overhype it,
because I feel like we could
easily be very disappointed,
but the rumors about Pixel 10,
some of them suggest a pretty
big performance increase
with Tensor G5, that could
make it much more fluid,
much more competitive
with Snapdragon stuff.
And that's really interesting.
So if you're specifically a
person like me who's, you know,
maybe trying to maximize
performance per dollar
and who really cares
about that type of thing,
it might be worth waiting
for a potentially awesome Pixel 10.
But I feel like I already regret
saying that in this video,
because the 9a is a perfectly good phone.
You can definitely go get
that phone and be happy.
I just wanna be careful.
I'm probably jinxing it.
I should just say expectations
are the thief of joy now,
just to get it out there.
But I'll be watching Pixel 10 stuff.
Either way, 9a drops into a world
where the iPhone 16e was
looking a little bit ridiculous,
and now we can feel validated.
Calling it ridiculous because
we've got all these other
pretty good-looking
budget phones coming out.
So thanks, Google.
(chill music)
Also, this shirt is available
for a limited time now
while supplies last at shop.mkbhd.com.
There's news on the horizon about this,
so get it while you can.
Thanks for watching.
Catch you to the next one, peace.